What is hashing?

Hashing means turning a piece of data (like a password) into a long, scrambled string using a math formula (hash function).
Example:
"mypassword" → "5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99"
It’s one-way — you can’t turn it back into the original password.
How it works for storing passwords:
User signs up → enters a password.
Server hashes the password (e.g., using bcrypt).
Server saves only the hash in the database — not the real password.
When user logs in later:
Server hashes the entered password again
Compares it to the stored hash
If they match → login success 
Hashing is one-way.
You can turn a password → hash,
but you cannot turn a hash → password again.
That’s what makes hashing so useful for security — even if someone gets the hash from the database, they can’t reverse it to see the original password.


In login API we create a token but not verify the token.


Creating custom middleware:
As we need to keep some routes to be protected meaning if user is not logged in then they cannot be able to access that particular route/API so instead of writing the protected API code which is to check the token is present or not if yes the token is correct or no again and again we create a custom middleware where we write that code to  check and verify the the token only one time. to create a middleware we create a folder in src name middleware and in that we create a file called auth.middleware.js we write the logic there and export that function and use it wherever we want using require.

eg:
router.post('/',authMiddleware, createPostController)
so first request will go to the api then to the middleware there if everything is correct then will create user property in req so in req.user will set userdata in req.user then next() in authMiddleware will call and the main req will go to the createPostController




Backend server cannot be able to read any file data by defult, we use multer package so that backend server can read the file data



If we verify login token or register token both works because in both tokens the data is same only.



AI functionality:
text => text
text => image
text => audio
text => video

here we are using:
image => text 


Base64: converting image into string
Base64 is not specifically an image converter; it is a binary-to-text encoding scheme .

Images are Binary Data: When you save an image (like a JPG or PNG), it's stored on your computer as a sequence of binary bytes (a series of 1s and 0s).

The Goal of Base64: Base64 takes any stream of binary bytes (whether it's an image, a PDF, or an audio file) and translates it into an equivalent ASCII text string.

Why Do This? The main purpose is to safely transmit binary data across systems that are designed to handle only text (like older email protocols, embedding data directly within HTML/CSS/JSON files, or including data in a URL). Binary data can contain characters that older systems or certain protocols interpret as special commands (like "end of file" or "new line"), which can corrupt the data during transfer. Base64 ensures the data is "safe" by only using a set of 64 printable ASCII characters (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, +, /, and = for padding).